---
layout: docs
title: Understanding Entries
draft: true
toc: true
---

Each initiative added to the repository has its own _Entry_. Each entry has its own folder in the [sphere repository]. The folder can have images and must have a text file in markdown to be rendered as a webpage.

# Taxonomies in DIYbiosphere
There are four main attributes that aggregate entries: _collections_, _type_, _tags_, and _status_

## Collections
_Collections_ are predetermined and are separated as distinct folders in the [sphere repository] preceded by an underscore. The ones currently in use are:

- <i class="far fa-briefcase fa-fw"></i> `_projects`: have particular aims, such as designing an instrument or an educational workshop.
- <i class="far fa-rocket fa-fw"></i> `_startups`: are entrepreneurial ventures and generally concern products or services
- <i class="far fa-flask fa-fw"></i> `_labs`: are dedicated physical spaces with materials and equipment dedicated to support DIYbio related activities. Labs can be static or mobile.
- <i class="far fa-leaf fa-fw"></i> `_incubators`: are organizations and spaces that help projects and startups to develop
- <i class="far fa-users fa-fw"></i> `_groups`: are associations of people (online and offline) that are interested in DIYbio related topics or activities. A group does not have a dedicated Lab space, but they may plan to have one.
- <i class="far fa-share-alt fa-fw"></i> `_networks`: a website, service or organization that facilitates communication and collaboration between individuals and organizations with interests in DIYbio.
- <i class="far fa-calendar-alt fa-fw"></i> `_events`: Global or regional events that are by and/or for the DIYbio community, like (un)conferences, camps, hackathons, and accelerators. Only include if something shareable is produced, like proceedings, videos or posters.
- <i class="far fa-umbrella fa-fw"></i> `_others`: Is an umbrella term for all the rest. Eventually as new entries begin to define themselves a new collection will be created to accommodate them.
<!-- - <i class="far fa-NEW_COLLECTION_ICON fa-fw"></i> `_NEW_COLLECTION(s)`: NEW_COLLECTION_DESCRIPTION -->

### Possible Collections
As the number of entries grows, we may need to add more colelctions. Some that have been proposed are:

- <i class="far fa-industry-alt fa-fw"></i> _company_: a commercial business, could be for-profit or non-profit
- <i class="far fa-shopping-basket fa-fw"></i> _products_: physical things that can be purchased
- <i class="far fa-cogs fa-fw"></i> _services_: abstract things that can be purchased
- <i class="far fa-list-ol fa-fw"></i> _protocols_: how-to's for experiments, workshops, etc.
- <i class="far fa-portrait fa-fw"></i> _profiles_: for people. Nothing personal, just their 'DIYbio career'
- <i class="far fa-usd-circle fa-fw"></i> _funders_: Grants, VC's, websites, that provide funding for DIYbio initiatives
- <i class="far fa-bookmark fa-fw"></i> _reads_: Media, scholarly, and other articles and important posts on DIYbio

{% include messages/question.html title="How to add a new collection" text="create a folder in the repository with an underscore at the beginning with the name of the collection in plural. Search the repository for `NEW_COLLECTION` to configure the new collection. Also search and replace for: `NEW_COLLECTION(s)`, `NEW_COLLECTION_ICON`, `NEW_COLLECTION_DESCRIPTION`" %}

## Type of Initiative
The _type_ is for specifying the kind of social/legal configuration of the initiative. Although not predetermined, these should be standardized as much as possible. These are some recommended values:

- _community_
- _non-profit_
- _university_
- _company_/_non-profit_
- _school_
- _museum_


{% include messages/info.html title="The meaning behind type" text="The idea behind `type: ` is..." %}

## Tags
The _tags_ are keywords that describe entries. Tags are not predetermined but should be as standardized as possible. There might be overlaps as some people may write the _collection_ name, or the _type_ as a _tag_. These should standardize and an assessment should follow to determine if new _collections_, or _types_ should be created.

{% include messages/question.html title="How to standardize values" text="go to the `Browse` page. Select _Filter Results_ and in the _Type_, _Tags_  and even _Country_ rows look at the values available and decide or discuss with the community on how to unify or standardize some values. Just search and replace `type-org: VALUE` or `- TAG` or `country: COUNTRY` in the whole repository" %}

## Status
The `status:` key is automatically generated by `_plugins/add-variables-to-files.rb` and we only recommend to input it manually in the _front matter_ if it should be something other than what is automatically generated. The code marks `status:` automatically to 'unknown', unless `start-date:` is in the past then `: active`, unless `end-date:` is in the past then `: inactive`, unless `start-date:` is in the future then `: planned`.

The _status_ should be completely standardized and should only have one of the following:

- _unknown_
- _active_
- _inactive_
- _planned_
- _hiatus_

# Other data keys
{% include messages/incomplete.html %}

# Rendering the Entries
{% include messages/incomplete.html %}
